Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion with how to handle Java resources.
In our example, it was reading data from some text file and how to deal with them or embed those resources
directly in the native image in the final binary executable file that the Native Image compiler creates.
Right?
And we saw that we can read the text, a text file or any data, any stream of bytes.
We can read them and bring them into our Java application using this connect class.
So whenever you want to deal with text retakes, understand them or go through them word by word, line
by line.
Your first thought should go to the scanner class.
It's very powerful.
It has a very versatile set of constructors and you can even define how the scanner can interpret those
a stream of bytes using the character set or car set.
And I showed you there are many different ways to catch this that Java supports.
Basically, UTF eight is basically usually is the default platform encoding.
UTF 16 is usually what Java supports.
Right.
And we saw that if you want to read the text file, you have to pass it as a file object because file
object is an abstraction.
You cannot pass directly the the path to that file as a string because the constructor of this candidate
takes a string, actually tokenize the string itself instead of assuming that it's a path to a file.
Right?
So we can use this class to read the text file.
The path relative or absolute should be passed to a scanner as a file.
And again, this file object handles basically the underlying operating systems file system, and it
can work with both absolute and relative path.
So both of them are supported.
And whenever you pass a relative or absolute, you can also the file object has methods for retrieving,
for example, where this basically file is an absolute path or relative path.
There are other things like canonical path, etc..
Right.
And we will look at the methods inside the file object.
We want to have a platform independent representation of the resources.
And this was one of the examples that we discussed in the previous lecture.
So if you use a file object and give it a relatively absolute path to where the resource is and then
pass it to a scanner, obviously that is that resource is directly tied to the underlying directories
at the operating system.
So if I give my job application to somebody else, they might have that resource file.
Also, I can package or bundle that resource file, let's say a text file into my jar file.
But in the problem is that they might not have the same file structure, the directories.
So really it's not a good idea to have a file that is or basically a resource that our job application
uses that is directly tied to the underlying file structure of the operating system.
We know that Java is all about platform independence, so how do we do this?
JVM has a platform, independent behavior.
That's that's the whole meaning, right?
If I write a job application, if I bundle all the resources we need, I want to give it to somebody
else.
And because they already have their JVM, even if their operating system is different, even if their
CPU is different, as long as there is a JVM is available for their platform, I want them to just get
my class files or whatever application is.
Let's say I package it as a jar file, give it to them, and I just want them to run it successfully.
Right.
So portable code, that's the whole meaning, right?
Once run anywhere.
And unfortunately again, they're loading resources.
If you just use the file class, it's going to be tied to the operating system, the directory, etc.
Accessing textual should be also platform independent.
Is there a way to load a resource at runtime in a in a platform independent way?
And the answer is yes.
So if we hardcoded the path to a file in the source file in our Java application, then we can't really
have a portable application.
Right.
The code is not platform independent and probably not portable.
Why?
Because again, we're using relative or absolute path.
First of all, it depends which directory is your working directory where you run your job Java application
from, especially if you use the relative path.
It also depends which working directory the Java application is run from.
Right.
So especially when using relative path in the source code.
So if you define a file and then give it a relative path, that means whatever the way Java interprets
that is when.
This is a relative path.
It assumes that it's with the working directory.
Right.
And working directly for Jim is where you launch your JV team, which directly you launch your JV and
we set that inside terminal.
The idea here is that inside a terminal you are always in a working directory, right?
CD desktop.
And then I can write Java.
And then let's say my application is in a format of a jar file and give it a jar.
And whenever I type Java it means I'm launching a GVM and the JVM understands that this current directory
that I'm launching the JVM from is my working directory.
So if, if in my source file a source code, I have something like dot something, right?
And then some, some text file, some files text, then the JVM interprets it.
This dot means the current working directly in this example is this stuff.
So this is really limiting, right?
This is not a portable code because somebody else might want their job application from some other directory.
They might not have this directory under operating system.
So it won't work.
Right.
So it's not really a portable code.
So what is the solution?
For platform independent resource access.
Let's say I want to access a text file and load it in a way that it really is not dependent on the operating
system.
You probably can guess that in that case, we're not really going to use a file class because again,
file class represents the underlying directory hierarchy, whatever is on the computer that we're actually
writing the source code.
There is no unique solution, but there is a good solution, or at least my recommendation.
So it's best to rely on JVM.
And JVM provides a way at runtime to load classes.
So JVM has a mechanism, right?
Because we know that JVM is a lazy loading machinery, which means whenever you use a type in your source
code, like let's say you have a type called car, as long as you never use it, JVM won't search for
a class file called Core and never load it.
But the first time you use a type JVM searches for basically a file called whatever the type is a dot
class, and then loads it into memory.
How does JVM do that?
It uses a concept called class loader.
So class loader in a class that comes with the JDK, and I've said it many times that JVM searches for
classifiers in a particular directory which are called which are known at runtime in the class path.
Right?
So class path is more or less abstracts away where the JVM has to look into when it tries to find a
resources.
So class loader also works with class path, right?
So class rose loader is the tool in the JDK that can locate the class file at runtime.
And what we do, basically, we say a class loader, there is a static method called get system resource.
And a get system resource means whenever you type deal with system, it means a search for a resource
that the system or the JVM understands, which means look into the directories that are on the class
path.
So class loader is like an abstract way of how to search and locate resources at runtime, because at
runtime you have to always specify some sort of class path.
Even if you bundle your Java application as a jar file, there is a manifest file inside of it that
specifies how this jar should be interpreted.
Right?
What's the directory hierarchy?
What's the top level directory that will be added to the class path?
So and then this returns a particular object here I'm using var for simplicity, but in eclipse we look
at what exactly is the type of this resource that gets system resource which is a static method returns
and it has a method called get path that gives you actually the exact path, the full absolute path
of that resource.
Right.
So what we're doing here, obviously we are translating the file that we use to a resource that is available
on the class path at runtime, and then the class loader can figure it out.
And then after that we can get the absolute path right.
And again, this concept of get system resource from class loader is a is a platform independent code.
It works on any platform, right?
So on any platform, when the class loader searches for that resource and this get path could be different
depending on where that resource is.
All right.
Let's head to Eclipse and try to have a hands on experience with this.
We had this code called the class called resource demo, and we saw that if we want to, we have a text
file called Run Me that is Edge.
It just has some simple characters in it and we try to read it.
We said that we have to give the scanner a file and here I'm using the relative path.
And the question, the first question was, what is this relative path?
And it depends on runtime, right?
Wherever you launch your JVM from.
And we know that in Eclipse ID, whenever you run your Java application, the way Eclipse handles this,
it creates a run configuration and it sets the working directory to the top, the project folder workspace,
a project folder, right?
That's how Eclipse ID handles it.
So some other ID might handle it differently.
That's why if you if I give you this code or even the class file and you run it in different IDs, you
might it might not work.
Right.
Now, this this relative path is really, really the ties is tying us to the the way the eclipse ID
handles it.
And we saw that.
So basically this dot at the moment inside the eclipse ID means this project directory right the top
level and my text file remind me that S-H is just inside this directory.
Right.
And then and then this works.
And then we said that, okay, this is not good.
And even when we compile this to native executable file, we saw that this relative path is really interpreted
the same way, which means the native executable file also interprets this dot as the current working
directory wherever we're running our native executable file from.
And this doesn't work.
But if I go up one level in the project root and now I go inside the native directory and run it, it
can find it because this dot is still interpreted as this working directory and our native executable
file searches from this current directory.
It tries to search for the file called Run Search and it can find it.
Right.
So again, this is not the best idea.
And the other thing is that
if this file ideally what I want is that this native, I want to kind of embed the contents of this,
this text file inside my native executable file so that I don't need to have to rely on this file,
external file.
Right.
That's something that that's what we're trying to move towards it.
So the first step, we want to get rid of this platform dependent file.
And what we're going to do here is to we're going to change our code a little bit.
So instead of doing this, what I'm going to do, first of all, let's comment all this out.
How else are we going to get access to this file, get access to this resource?
So I mentioned we want to rely on the class loader, right?
So so class loader, it's in the Java lang, it's automatically imported.
And then if you look at the static methods, get platform class loader, this returns the class loader
gets sys class loader class loader and a different series that sys class loader loads all the class
files third party classifiers on the class path platform class loader loads only the JDK classes, the
classes that come with the JVM.
And if you are familiar with these a little bit in more details, you know that there are security levels
that these class loaders have or basically security clearances on what classes they can access and load.
So sys class loader means anything that is not part of the JDK, right?
All the resources classes that are third party get system resource.
Again, these are the resources.
These are files that are not class files that are third party file, they're not part of JDK git system
resource as a stream and get system resource, you give it a name here you get system resources.
So here you give it the.
Basically if there are multiple files that have the same name, these can return all of them.
Right.
So let's we're going what we're going to do, we're going to say get system resource and what is the
name of our resource.
Run me search.
Remember now we are not providing any path, any relative or absolute path.
You just provide the name and how those the class loader works this system class loader again it works
with the concept of the class path.
When my class pass abstracts away all the directories or where the resources are, where the class files
are, where the resources are.
Right.
So this returns something called a u r l, so we can just use a dot var template to create a resource.
Now I prefer normally I prefer to just use var here, but the type here is u r l in java we have in
JDC we have two types.
You are l and you are I.
Normally you are l is more your r is more like network stuff.
The protocols that we use you are l universal are universal resource locator.
This is an independent way or platform independent way.
So the class URL represents a uniform resource locator, a pointer to a resource on the World Wide Web.
These are also the concepts that came from networking.
A resource can be something as simple as a file or a directory, or it can be a reference to a more
complicated object, such as a query to a database or to a search engine.
More information.
You can find it here, right?
So there is also you are this also you are I.
So java net.
You are you are I.
Represents a uniform resource identifier.
Aside from some minor deviations noted below, an instance of this class represents a URI reference
as defined by these standards.
Right.
And again, these are more like network protocols, how the binaries get translated.
But here the system resource returns a URL which is again a more like platform independent way because
everybody every platform, every operating system uses follows the same protocols when it comes to World
Wide Web or networking.
Right.
Networking are standards that are independent of the operating system platforms.
I believe that's why Java adopted this.
So what can we do with this URL?
So let's look at the methods it has equals.
Get authority, get class, get contents.
Let me zoom out to look at the help get content.
It returns an object of type URL gets the contents of this URL get default port.
Obviously we're not using a basically networking, right?
This system resource doesn't come from the network, it comes from the class path.
Get file, get host get path.
So get file, returns the string, get the file name of this URL.
So let's start with that see out resource dot get file and this returns a string.
So let's see what we get here.
Cannot invoke you file because resource is not.
Why is it that so?
Obviously what happens here is that when this class loader searches the class path for a file or a resource
called Run M.A.S.H.
If it doesn't work, it returns null.
So you should you should always do an all to a null check to see if the resource was found or not.
So if a resource is not equal to null, we're going to say that.
Get the file right.
Else we're going to see out that resource not found.
All right, let's run this.
And this tells us that resource not found, which means the class loader wasn't able to find this resource.
Why?
It's already dead.
That's because now we are moving to a concept towards a platform, independent way of locating resources.
But again, JVM still needs to know where to look at.
And JVM only understands class path.
And you know, the way that Eclipse ID organizes the class path is that at the moment, the source project,
the directory of the project is not on the class path.
Only stuff that are in the Z folder are on the class path.
So what I can do first is to move this run meta search inside the CRC directory.
Right.
And now it keeps actually if you look at the hierarchy anything that is inside CRC Eclipse copies them
also to go to the bin directory.
So if I look at my Z directory, you see that the run me search is now.
So actually if I look at my being directory here, you see now run me that search was copied.
If I move it back, you see Eclipse removes it also from the bin directory.
So I'm going to move this to CRC directory, which is a source directory.
And now if I run, this is going to work fine, because now this run method is at runtime, it's available
on the class pass, which means it's one or it's inside one of the directories that is on the class
path.
Right.
And now it works.
And you see, now, if I give this application to somebody else who is using another operating system
and other computer, this will still work.
This code is fully platform independent and it has a platform independent way of locating this resource.
Why?
Because when they go and run the Java Java application, they have to specify the class path.
That's something that mandatory.
Whenever you want to launch a JVM to run a job application, you have to provide a class path.
JVM needs to know where to load all the class was all the resources from, but then after that everything
else is in.
This code is platform independent because this class loader, based on where you run your job application,
just searches into the class path and then finds this resource.
And interestingly enough, when you get the file or get the path, it tells you exactly gives you a
platform dependent representation of the file.
So on Windows you probably get C column backslash, something on Mac OS, you start from the root,
etc..
Right.
So it's very interesting that we are loading this resource in a platform independent way, but then
the absolute path to the file can be a platform dependent thing, which is very nice, right?
This is one of the nice capabilities of JVM because you can load the resources in a platform independent
way.
Now, there was another option in this for this resource get path.
Let's also try that get path.
Returns a string.
And they kind of work the same way.
There's not difference in in this.
Right.
All right.
So, um, so these two at the moment for a file that is working at the resource get path and get file
are more or less the same thing.
Right?
And so right now we have been able to successfully roll this resource in a platform independent way.
The key is to make it available on the class path at runtime.
Right.
So the key here is to the key here to make the resource file available on the class path at runtime.
This is this is the key, right?
Because after that, everything else becomes platform independent, which is very nice.
Now, if we do this, how do we basically now read the contents?
Let's say we get this URL, how do we do this one thing that we can do?
Now, obviously, instead of hard coding this string, we can ask our resource to get file, right?
What this does is now it gets the absolute path and then pass it to the file, which is a abstraction
of the underlying file of the operating system.
And hopefully this is still works fine.
Yes, this works fine.
All right.
However, let's see what happens now if we go ahead and compile our compile or Java application to a
native executable file again, class loader, this kind of stuff, they're fully supported with the
Native Image compiler because they're part of the JDK.
Anything that is part of the JDK is fully supported, so no worry about that.
So we select our Java File Resource demo and we run our native image.
And we see what's going on.
So it's preparing to compile.
Just know that this gets the same resource if it doesn't find it.
So it has a unchecked exception, right?
Not point to exception.
So we're getting a warning.
And the warning is that, hey, resource access methods, your line class loader invoked at main method.
Right?
So Native Image Compiler realizes that you're accessing a resource in a platform independent way.
And the native image says, I don't know what this resource is.
So what it did, it actually failed.
We've seen this before.
When we look at the exception reflection and now it's basically false.
It goes to a fallback mode which is creating an executable that needs to be backed up by a by a JDK.
So if we look at this and open a terminal here.
So if we say this one, it says that it's a fallback so it cannot run.
Right.
So native image failed because we're accessing a resource.
And previously we said that anything that has with some some sort of runtime stuff that cannot be figured
out at compile time has to be fed as extra information to Native Image compiler.
And how do we do this?
We did this for the reflection part using the Java Trace agent.
So we have to run this with the Java Trace, which is the JV that comes with the native image, right,
with the global VM.
So let's run our Java application with the GVM that comes with the.
With the album and it creates this meta enough and then native image.
And then if you now look at the resource, interestingly enough, now the the then basically native
image agent that came with the global album, a JVM realises that we are accessing a resource run media
search.
Right.
And it means that this has to be available on the class path.
And when we now we run our compilation with the native image, we select our source for resource and
then.
Native image.
What you realize is that that native image looks into this configuration file resource and it tries
to add when it tries to compile.
We said that you have to specify the class path for the native image compiler so it is able to find
these.
Ramey does a search on the class path at compile time, and now it's not going to complain about accessing
a resource because it understands that this basically this basically this resource has to be available.
And you see there is no warning.
It was a native image was able to find it.
Right.
Well, let's go ahead and run our job, this executable file.
So if we say here and still there is a problem here.
So research resource get filed research get past they are on this but you see there is a difference
if I run my Java application.
Obviously I get this result and I am able to read the contents, but when I run with basically my native
image, I get a different result.
It says Forward slash run me, that is H.
And the reason is that obviously when you compile to the executable file, there is no concept of like
a kind of class path anymore.
You just want to run your executable file and whenever you run this it is still understands that file,
at least the string or that resource, but it still says I cannot find that file.
Right?
This file fails because get file returns this from the root of the operating system.
Go to run me that s edge.
Right.
Obviously this is not the correct path for this file.
That's why our code at the moment is not exactly platform independent because of using this file.
So we have to abandon the idea of using this this this concept of file.
So if I want to use a scanner, I have to kind of feed this resource in a, in another way to a scanner
and we already know what to do.
So we saw that a scanner has another constructor that you can directly feed it, input a stream to a
stream of bytes.
And interestingly enough, this you are l.
And that resource that we get as a URL has a method called the SO get authority, get file host, get
path, get protocol, get query, get ref, get user info, get class.
So it has a open a stream.
This open a stream returns an input stream.
And what this does, it gives the feeds, the scanner and input a stream that is kind of can read all
the bytes right from that stream.
And again, this becomes something that is platform independent.
Now this is not tied.
So using file
ties us to OWS using a stream or input stream is in makes it makes it independent makes it independent
of OS because we we have a way of independently loading that resource.
And now there is also an a way to independently read all the bytes of that file and a scanner understands
how to translate those bytes to character.
So if I run this as a job application in my eclipse is still voice and nothing has changed the only
way.
The only thing that has changed is that we're not using the file anymore.
Right?
We're using the input stream that the resource provides.
Steel works fine right now.
Let's see what happens.
Now we still need to run our Java trace.
It will give us the same thing.
Right?
So.
So I have to select my resource demo and then run the java trace.
It is still has a native image in the configuration file.
There is a resource config and we're using this run ssh as before.
So the native image compiler understands this file can find it as at compile time.
But now let's see what's happening now that we're using the stream.
Actually what the native image compiler does it it reads all the bytes of this stream and hardcoded
them into the native executable file.
So input a stream.
What happens is that the native image compiler at compile time, we give it the class file the class
path and it accesses this resource and reads all the bytes, reads all the bytes.
This.
Obviously any compiler can read all the bytes of any file.
That's fine.
Right.
And if file is just a bunch of bytes and then the compiler hardcoded them, hardcoded them into the
final mutable binary, which is very interesting.
So let's go ahead and select our.
Obviously, we need to have this method in and run the Java resource to tell the native image there
is this resource we're accessing.
But then now let's go and finally run our compiler native image to get the executable and hopefully
this time it's going to work.
Our Java application, we're going to run it as a executable file.
It's going to run.
It's not going to actually depend on whether this run me search is available or not.
It's completely independent of this file.
All the contents of this file is already copied into the final file.
Binary file.
And that's a very powerful concept using these streams and these class loaders.
It's really something that makes this kind of native compilation very powerful.
So if I open a terminal here and then say, resource demo, now everything works fine, right?
Java, hyphen, hyphen, agent version.
We were able to successfully read the contents because we're not relying on any file.
Remember this?
Remind me that S-H is not available in this native directory folder.
It doesn't matter.
Even if I go up one level and then now say Native, this works fine.
The binary contents of this resource has been already copied into the final executable file.
I want you to really understand this.
In the next lecture, I'm going to show you an example where I have a very large file, text file.
The size of this text file is going to be like ten megabytes or so.
And then when we compile our application and use read the contents, you see that this final size is
like 25 megabytes because all the contents of this file have been already copied into the final file.
So I hope you enjoy this lecture.
Please stay tuned and I'll see the next one.